## Development notes:

- Git repo. Could be gitlab? Has CI.
- Relevant to types of deployment!

- Database structure:
  - Difference between empty and filled diamond
  - Experiment
    - Scientific area, lab type = db enumerators, hard-coded choices?
  - Apparatus
    - What is localization in apparatus? -> LOCATION
    - "Secret" ? authentification process - OK
    - Owner - OK
  - Protocol
    - What about FK to Experiment and M2M to Apparatus - ADD
    - Changed config to JSON and renamed to config - OK 
    - I think it should have name - ADD NAME
    - Add JSON SCHEMA, (optional)
  - Status
    - Shouldn't it be 1:N? If yes, not sure if we want to - YES
    - HARDCODED CHOICES
  - Execution
    - What is the purpose of the field status - STATUS OF EXECUTION, STATES COULD BE HARDCODED
    - START TIMESTAMP AND END TIMESTAMP of EXECUTION
    - FK TO PROTOCOL
    - FK TO APPARATUS

  - User
    - ADD userType proffesor/student as a user profile parameter

  
    - What is the purpose of user type?
  - Result
    - Why 1:1 to Execution? - FK to execution
    - Timestamp again - OK
    - What is result type? Should it be limited to enum
    - TYPE OF RESULT, HARDCODED FINAL/PARTIAL

- Create intial db data migration with default choices, user etc.
- Integrate webserver config into CI
- Look into OpenAPI https://www.openapis.org - autogenerated now
- Multilanguage support!
  - Dependent on deployment. Should it be deployed with fixed or flexible number of languages?
- Get API description
- Task list coordination software
- Design framework 
- JS framework - REACT
- Sentry integration
- Smart device specification?
- Instalation on a server
- Preferred web server
- HTTPS config

## Project notes:
- Overall status, roles, action plan
- How does this all relate to WP@ELAB extension? 
- Estabilish quire workspace

TODO:
- `ALLOWED_HOSTS`, `DEBUG`, `.env`